{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033
{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red15\green157\blue182;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440
\widowctrl\f0\fs22
\pard\sb0\sa0
{\b\fs44\cf1 Dr. R. N. Sezer \& Associates}\par
{\b\fs28 Dolphin Dental \emdash  Services Reference Document}\par
{\fs20 All 16 Services | Copy for Website Use}\par
\pard\sb0\sa200 \par
\pard\sb480\sa120\b\fs36 Dental Implants\b0\fs22\par
\pard\sa160 \par
\pard\sa200 A dental implant is a small titanium post that is placed directly into the jawbone, acting as a sturdy root for a replacement tooth. Once the implant fuses with the bone \emdash  a natural process called osseointegration \emdash  a custom-made crown is attached on top, giving you a tooth that looks, feels, and functions just like the real thing. The process is carefully staged to make sure everything heals properly at each step.\par
\pard\sa200 Implants are widely considered the gold standard for replacing missing teeth, and for good reason. Unlike dentures or bridges, they do not rely on neighbouring teeth for support, and they help preserve the jawbone so your face maintains its natural shape over time. With proper care, a well-placed implant can last decades \emdash  making it one of the most worthwhile investments you can make in your oral health.\par
\pard\sa100 \par
\pard\sb200\sa100\b\fs26 When Should You Consider It?\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Missing one or more teeth:} An implant fills the gap permanently without affecting the healthy teeth around it.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Loose or ill-fitting dentures:} Implants can anchor a denture securely so it never shifts or slips again.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Bone loss concerns:} Early placement can help slow the bone loss that follows a missing tooth.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Long-term value:} If you want a solution that works for life rather than one you replace every few years, implants are worth the conversation.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Trouble eating or speaking:} A missing tooth can affect both \emdash  an implant restores full function.\par
\pard\sa100 \par
\pard\sb200\sa100\b\fs26 What to Expect\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 1.\tab {\b Consultation and planning.} Dr. Sezer evaluates your bone density, takes imaging, and maps out the exact placement before anything begins.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 2.\tab {\b Implant placement.} The titanium post is placed under local anaesthetic \emdash  most patients are surprised by how manageable the procedure is.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 3.\tab {\b Crown fitting.} Once healing is complete, your custom crown is secured to the implant for a natural, seamless finish.\par
\page
\pard\sb480\sa120\b\fs36 All-on-4 / Teeth in a Day\b0\fs22\par
\pard\sa160 \par
\pard\sa200 All-on-4 is a full-arch tooth replacement solution that uses just four strategically placed implants to support an entire set of fixed teeth. Rather than replacing each tooth individually, the implants are angled to maximise contact with the available bone, which means many patients \emdash  even those with some bone loss \emdash  are good candidates. In most cases, a provisional set of teeth is attached the same day as surgery, which is where the name \'93Teeth in a Day\'94 comes from.\par
\pard\sa200 For people who have lost most or all of their teeth, or who are facing full extractions, All-on-4 can be genuinely life-changing. It eliminates the daily hassle of removable dentures and gives you a stable, confident smile you do not have to take out at night. The final result looks and feels natural, and because it is fixed in place, you eat and speak exactly as you would with your own teeth.\par
\pard\sa100 \par
\pard\sb200\sa100\b\fs26 When Should You Consider It?\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Multiple missing teeth or failing teeth:} All-on-4 replaces a full arch in a single treatment plan rather than addressing each tooth separately.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Dentures that are affecting your quality of life:} If your denture shifts, limits what you eat, or affects your confidence, this is a meaningful upgrade.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Bone loss that has ruled out individual implants:} The angled placement technique is specifically designed to work with reduced bone volume.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b You want same-day results:} The provisional teeth placed on surgery day mean you leave the clinic with a complete smile.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b A permanent, low-maintenance solution:} All-on-4 is brushed and cared for like natural teeth \emdash  no adhesives, no nightly removal.\par
\pard\sa100 \par
\pard\sb200\sa100\b\fs26 What to Expect\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 1.\tab {\b Comprehensive assessment.} Dr. Sezer reviews your bone structure, health history, and goals to confirm you are a strong candidate and to plan placement precisely.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 2.\tab {\b Surgery and same-day teeth.} The four implants are placed and a provisional set of fixed teeth is attached \emdash  all in one appointment.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 3.\tab {\b Final restoration.} After a healing period, your permanent, custom-crafted arch is fitted for the long-term result.\par
\page
\pard\sb480\sa120\b\fs36 Porcelain Veneers\b0\fs22\par
\pard\sa160 \par
\pard\sa200 A porcelain veneer is a thin, custom-made shell of dental ceramic that is bonded to the front surface of a tooth. Each veneer is crafted to match the exact shape, size, and shade you are going for \emdash  and because porcelain mimics the way natural enamel catches light, the results look remarkably real. A small amount of tooth surface is gently prepared before bonding, and the whole process is completed over a couple of visits.\par
\pard\sa200 Veneers are one of the most versatile cosmetic treatments available. They can address a range of concerns in one go \emdash  discolouration that whitening cannot fix, chips, uneven sizing, minor gaps, and worn edges. The result is a smile that looks polished and natural at the same time. Many patients describe it as one of the best decisions they have ever made, not because it is dramatic, but because it simply looks like the best version of their own teeth.\par
\pard\sa100 \par
\pard\sb200\sa100\b\fs26 When Should You Consider It?\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Stubborn discolouration:} Tetracycline staining or intrinsic discolouration that does not respond to whitening is easily covered with veneers.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Chipped or worn teeth:} Veneers restore the shape and protect the remaining tooth surface.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Slightly gapped or uneven teeth:} Minor spacing and size inconsistencies can be corrected without orthodontics.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b You want a lasting cosmetic result:} Porcelain veneers are durable and resist staining far better than natural enamel.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b A complete smile refresh:} If multiple teeth are bothering you, veneers let you address them all as a coordinated set.\par
\pard\sa100 \par
\pard\sb200\sa100\b\fs26 What to Expect\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 1.\tab {\b Design consultation.} Dr. Sezer discusses the look you are after, takes detailed records, and sends specifications to the dental lab for fabrication.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 2.\tab {\b Tooth preparation and temporaries.} A thin layer of enamel is removed, impressions are taken, and temporary veneers are placed while your permanent ones are made.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 3.\tab {\b Bonding appointment.} Your finished veneers are tried in, adjusted as needed, and permanently bonded for a seamless, lasting result.\par
\page
\pard\sb480\sa120\b\fs36 Crowns and Bridges\b0\fs22\par
\pard\sa160 \par
\pard\sa200 A dental crown is a cap that fits over an entire tooth, restoring its shape, size, and strength. It is custom-made to match your surrounding teeth and is cemented in place so it functions exactly like a natural tooth. A bridge works on a similar principle \emdash  it uses crowns on the teeth on either side of a gap to anchor a false tooth (or several) in between, bridging the space left by a missing tooth.\par
\pard\sa200 Crowns and bridges are workhorses of restorative dentistry. They protect teeth that have been cracked, heavily filled, or weakened by decay, and they restore full biting function in the process. A bridge is a reliable, non-surgical option for replacing missing teeth \emdash  it does not require implant surgery and, for many patients, is an excellent solution that lasts many years with the right care.\par
\pard\sa100 \par
\pard\sb200\sa100\b\fs26 When Should You Consider It?\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b A tooth that is cracked or broken:} A crown holds the tooth together and prevents the damage from spreading.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b A large old filling that is failing:} When there is not enough healthy tooth structure left for a new filling, a crown is the better long-term fix.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b After a root canal:} Root canal-treated teeth become more brittle over time \emdash  a crown protects them and extends their life.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b A missing tooth:} A bridge fills the gap and restores your bite without requiring surgery.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b A discoloured or misshapen tooth:} Crowns can also serve a cosmetic purpose, covering teeth that cannot be fixed with bonding or veneers alone.\par
\pard\sa100 \par
\pard\sb200\sa100\b\fs26 What to Expect\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 1.\tab {\b Tooth preparation.} The tooth is shaped to accommodate the crown, impressions are taken, and a temporary crown is placed while your permanent one is made.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 2.\tab {\b Lab fabrication.} Your crown or bridge is custom-crafted to match your bite and the shade of your surrounding teeth.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 3.\tab {\b Final fitting.} The permanent restoration is checked for fit and bite, then cemented securely into place.\par
\page
\pard\sb480\sa120\b\fs36 Dental Bonding\b0\fs22\par
\pard\sa160 \par
\pard\sa200 Dental bonding uses a tooth-coloured composite resin \emdash  the same material used in white fillings \emdash  applied directly to the tooth and sculpted by hand. The resin is hardened with a curing light and then polished to blend naturally with the surrounding enamel. It is one of the most straightforward cosmetic procedures available, and in many cases it can be completed in a single visit without any anaesthetic.\par
\pard\sa200 Bonding is a brilliant option when you want to improve how a tooth looks without committing to a more involved treatment. It handles chips, small gaps, mild discolouration, and teeth that look slightly too short or uneven. The results can be genuinely impressive, especially in the hands of a clinician with an eye for aesthetics. It is also one of the most affordable ways to make a noticeable difference to your smile.\par
\pard\sa100 \par
\pard\sb200\sa100\b\fs26 When Should You Consider It?\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b A chipped front tooth:} Bonding rebuilds the missing portion so naturally that most people cannot tell it was ever damaged.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b A small gap between teeth:} Minor spacing can be closed quickly without braces or aligners.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Mild discolouration on one tooth:} When a single tooth looks noticeably darker or different, bonding masks it cleanly.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Teeth that look too short:} Wear, grinding, or natural shape can leave teeth looking stubby \emdash  bonding adds length and definition back.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b A quick, conservative fix:} If you want results without drilling, needles, or multiple appointments, bonding is often the answer.\par
\pard\sa100 \par
\pard\sb200\sa100\b\fs26 What to Expect\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 1.\tab {\b Shade matching and preparation.} The resin colour is carefully selected to match your tooth, and the surface is gently conditioned to help the material bond securely.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 2.\tab {\b Sculpting and shaping.} The resin is applied, shaped by hand, and hardened with a curing light \emdash  often in a single visit.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 3.\tab {\b Finishing and polish.} The bonded area is refined and polished until it blends seamlessly with the rest of the tooth.\par
\page
\pard\sb480\sa120\b\fs36 Teeth Whitening\b0\fs22\par
\pard\sa160 \par
\pard\sa200 Professional teeth whitening uses a higher-concentration bleaching agent than anything available over the counter, which means the results are faster, more even, and significantly more noticeable. At Dolphin Dental, whitening can be done in-office for immediate results, or through a take-home kit with custom-fitted trays that you use at your own pace. Either way, the treatment is carefully controlled to minimise sensitivity and protect your gum tissue.\par
\pard\sa200 Teeth naturally darken over time from coffee, tea, red wine, and simply aging \emdash  and there is nothing wrong with wanting them a few shades lighter. Professional whitening is one of the simplest ways to refresh how you look and feel with very little time or effort involved. It works best on natural teeth, so if you have crowns or veneers, your dentist will walk you through what to expect before you begin.\par
\pard\sa100 \par
\pard\sb200\sa100\b\fs26 When Should You Consider It?\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Gradual staining from food and drink:} Coffee, tea, and red wine are common culprits \emdash  whitening reverses years of slow discolouration.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Before a special event:} Many patients whiten ahead of a wedding, reunion, or milestone \emdash  the results can be ready in a matter of days.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b You want a quick confidence boost:} Whiter teeth are one of the most immediately noticeable improvements you can make to your appearance.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b You have been unhappy with over-the-counter results:} Professional-grade whitening goes noticeably further than strips or drugstore trays.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b As a complement to other cosmetic work:} Whitening is often a great starting point before bonding, veneers, or any cosmetic treatment.\par
\pard\sa100 \par
\pard\sb200\sa100\b\fs26 What to Expect\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 1.\tab {\b Assessment and shade recording.} Your current shade is noted and any existing restorations are identified so you know what to expect from the result.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 2.\tab {\b Whitening treatment.} In-office whitening is completed in a single appointment; take-home kits come with custom trays and clear instructions for daily use.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 3.\tab {\b Review and maintenance guidance.} You will know exactly how to maintain your result and when to touch up to keep your smile looking its best.\par
\page
\pard\sb480\sa120\b\fs36 Invisalign\b0\fs22\par
\pard\sa160 \par
\pard\sa200 Invisalign straightens teeth using a series of clear, removable aligners that are custom-made from a precise digital scan of your mouth. Each set of aligners shifts your teeth gradually \emdash  you wear each set for about one to two weeks before moving on to the next. The aligners are smooth, comfortable, and nearly invisible, which is why so many adults who would never wear traditional braces choose this route.\par
\pard\sa200 Orthodontic treatment is not just cosmetic. Straight teeth are easier to clean, which reduces the risk of decay and gum disease. A corrected bite can also reduce jaw strain and uneven wear on your teeth. Invisalign makes it possible to address all of that without altering your appearance during treatment \emdash  you go about your life, and most people around you will never notice a thing.\par
\pard\sa100 \par
\pard\sb200\sa100\b\fs26 When Should You Consider It?\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Crowded or overlapping teeth:} Invisalign creates space and aligns teeth that have shifted over time.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Gaps between teeth:} Spacing issues can be closed gradually and precisely.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b A bite that does not feel right:} Overbites, underbites, and crossbites are often treatable with Invisalign.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b You tried braces before and your teeth have shifted:} Refinement treatment with Invisalign is a popular option for relapse cases.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b You want to straighten your teeth discreetly as an adult:} The clear aligner format is designed specifically for people who want results without the look of metal braces.\par
\pard\sa100 \par
\pard\sb200\sa100\b\fs26 What to Expect\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 1.\tab {\b Digital scan and treatment planning.} A precise 3D scan of your teeth is taken and your full treatment sequence is mapped out digitally so you can see the projected result before you begin.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 2.\tab {\b Aligner wear.} You wear your aligners for 20 to 22 hours a day, removing them only to eat and clean your teeth, and progress through each set on schedule.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 3.\tab {\b Progress checks and refinements.} Dr. Sezer checks in at regular intervals to confirm your teeth are tracking as planned and makes any refinements needed along the way.\par
\page
\pard\sb480\sa120\b\fs36 General Dentistry\b0\fs22\par
\pard\sa160 \par
\pard\sa200 General dentistry is the foundation of everything else. It covers the routine care that keeps your mouth healthy year-round \emdash  examinations, professional cleanings, X-rays, fillings, and the kind of ongoing monitoring that catches small problems before they become expensive ones. It is also where trust is built between you and your dentist, which matters more than most people realise.\par
\pard\sa200 Seeing a dentist regularly is not just about clean teeth. It is about keeping an eye on your gums, your bite, the condition of any existing restorations, and the soft tissues of your mouth. A dentist who knows your history is far better placed to spot something unusual early. Most of the more complex treatments people eventually need could have been simpler \emdash  or avoided \emdash  with consistent general care.\par
\pard\sa100 \par
\pard\sb200\sa100\b\fs26 When Should You Consider It?\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b It has been more than six months since your last cleaning:} Tartar buildup happens even with excellent brushing and cannot be removed at home.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b You have noticed sensitivity, bleeding gums, or any discomfort:} These are early signals worth checking \emdash  they rarely resolve on their own.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b You are new to the practice:} Establishing a baseline with a full exam means any future changes can be caught and compared.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b You have a child ready for their first visit:} Early dental habits shape a lifetime of oral health.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b You just want a clean bill of health:} Preventive care is the simplest and least expensive form of dental treatment there is.\par
\pard\sa100 \par
\pard\sb200\sa100\b\fs26 What to Expect\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 1.\tab {\b Examination and X-rays.} Dr. Sezer conducts a thorough assessment of your teeth, gums, and bite, using X-rays to see what is happening below the surface.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 2.\tab {\b Professional cleaning.} The hygienist removes plaque and tartar buildup, polishes your teeth, and walks you through anything worth paying attention to at home.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 3.\tab {\b Treatment planning if needed.} If anything requires follow-up, you will leave with a clear, no-pressure plan for what comes next and why.\par
\page
\pard\sb480\sa120\b\fs36 Gum Disease Treatment\b0\fs22\par
\pard\sa160 \par
\pard\sa200 Gum disease begins quietly \emdash  usually with gums that bleed a little when you brush \emdash  and progresses in stages from gingivitis (mild, reversible inflammation) to periodontitis (a more serious infection that affects the bone supporting your teeth). Treatment depends on how advanced things are, but typically involves a deep cleaning procedure called scaling and root planing, which removes bacteria and buildup from below the gumline where regular cleaning cannot reach.\par
\pard\sa200 Gum disease is more common than most people realise, and more consequential than many expect. Left untreated, it is the leading cause of tooth loss in adults. There is also a growing body of research linking chronic gum disease to systemic health conditions including heart disease and diabetes. The good news is that caught at the right stage, it responds well to treatment \emdash  and maintaining the results is very manageable with the right home care routine.\par
\pard\sa100 \par
\pard\sb200\sa100\b\fs26 When Should You Consider It?\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Gums that bleed when you brush or floss:} This is the earliest and most important warning sign \emdash  do not ignore it.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Gums that look red, swollen, or have pulled away from your teeth:} These are signs that inflammation has taken hold below the surface.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Persistent bad breath that does not go away with brushing:} Bacteria below the gumline is a common cause that regular cleaning will not resolve.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Teeth that feel loose or have shifted:} Bone loss from advanced gum disease can affect how stable your teeth feel.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b A family history of gum disease:} Genetic susceptibility is real \emdash  more frequent monitoring makes a significant difference.\par
\pard\sa100 \par
\pard\sb200\sa100\b\fs26 What to Expect\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 1.\tab {\b Assessment and pocket depth charting.} The team measures the spaces between your teeth and gums to determine the extent of the disease and what treatment is needed.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 2.\tab {\b Scaling and root planing.} A thorough deep clean removes tartar and bacterial deposits from root surfaces, typically done in sections with local anaesthetic for comfort.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 3.\tab {\b Maintenance schedule.} You will be placed on a tailored recall program \emdash  usually every three to four months \emdash  to monitor your gums and keep the disease from returning.\par
\page
\pard\sb480\sa120\b\fs36 Wisdom Teeth Extractions\b0\fs22\par
\pard\sa160 \par
\pard\sa200 Wisdom teeth are the last molars to come in, usually in your late teens or early twenties, and the jaw often does not have enough room for them. When they are impacted \emdash  meaning they cannot fully erupt \emdash  they can grow at awkward angles, put pressure on neighbouring teeth, or become partially exposed and difficult to clean. Extraction removes the tooth entirely, either in a straightforward procedure if the tooth is accessible, or through a minor surgical approach if it is fully or partially impacted.\par
\pard\sa200 Many people dread wisdom tooth removal more than necessary. When it is handled by an experienced clinician in a calm, well-managed environment, the procedure is almost always very manageable \emdash  and the relief afterwards is immediate. Leaving a problematic wisdom tooth in place tends to create bigger problems down the road, from crowding and decay to recurring infections that become harder to treat the longer they are left.\par
\pard\sa100 \par
\pard\sb200\sa100\b\fs26 When Should You Consider It?\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Pain or pressure at the back of your jaw:} This is often the first sign that a wisdom tooth is pushing where it should not be.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Repeated infections or swelling around a partially erupted wisdom tooth:} Partial eruption creates a pocket that traps food and bacteria, making infection almost inevitable.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Crowding that is affecting your other teeth:} Pressure from impacted wisdom teeth can shift teeth that were previously well-aligned.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Decay in a wisdom tooth or the molar in front of it:} Wisdom teeth are notoriously hard to clean \emdash  decay here is common and often irreversible.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Your dentist has recommended monitoring them:} Proactive removal while you are young tends to mean simpler surgery and faster healing.\par
\pard\sa100 \par
\pard\sb200\sa100\b\fs26 What to Expect\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 1.\tab {\b Imaging and assessment.} X-rays or a CBCT scan show exactly how the tooth is positioned and sitting relative to surrounding nerves and bone.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 2.\tab {\b Extraction procedure.} Under local anaesthetic (with sedation options available if needed), the tooth is carefully removed \emdash  the time and complexity depend on how the tooth is positioned.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 3.\tab {\b Recovery guidance.} You will leave with clear aftercare instructions, and healing for most patients is well underway within a few days.\par
\page
\pard\sb480\sa120\b\fs36 Root Canal Therapy\b0\fs22\par
\pard\sa160 \par
\pard\sa200 A root canal treats infection inside the tooth \emdash  specifically within the pulp, which is the soft tissue at the core containing the nerve and blood vessels. When that tissue becomes infected or inflamed from decay, a crack, or trauma, it needs to be removed, the canals cleaned and shaped, and the space sealed. The tooth is then typically restored with a crown. The procedure is done under local anaesthetic and is far more comfortable than its reputation suggests.\par
\pard\sa200 Root canal therapy saves teeth that would otherwise need to be extracted. A severe toothache or a dental abscess can be genuinely frightening, and root canal treatment resolves both \emdash  often providing immediate relief once the infected tissue is removed. Keeping your natural tooth is nearly always the better outcome. It preserves your bite, prevents neighbouring teeth from shifting, and avoids the cost and process of a replacement down the line.\par
\pard\sa100 \par
\pard\sb200\sa100\b\fs26 When Should You Consider It?\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b A severe or throbbing toothache that does not go away:} This kind of pain \emdash  especially if it wakes you at night \emdash  often points to pulp infection.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Sensitivity to heat that lingers after the source is removed:} Prolonged heat sensitivity is a reliable sign that the nerve is affected.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b A dental abscess or swelling near a tooth:} An abscess means active infection that needs to be treated promptly.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b A tooth that has been traumatised:} A hard knock or crack can damage the pulp even without obvious signs \emdash  sometimes years later.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Decay that has reached the centre of the tooth:} Deep cavities that have gone untreated long enough can infect the pulp and require root canal treatment to save the tooth.\par
\pard\sa100 \par
\pard\sb200\sa100\b\fs26 What to Expect\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 1.\tab {\b Diagnosis and anaesthetic.} X-rays confirm the extent of the infection and local anaesthetic is administered so you are completely comfortable throughout.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 2.\tab {\b Cleaning and shaping the canals.} The infected pulp is removed, the canals are carefully cleaned and shaped, then filled and sealed to prevent reinfection.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 3.\tab {\b Crown placement.} A crown is typically placed at a follow-up appointment to protect the treated tooth and restore full function.\par
\page
\pard\sb480\sa120\b\fs36 Emergency Dentistry\b0\fs22\par
\pard\sa160 \par
\pard\sa200 Dental emergencies do not wait for convenient timing. Whether it is a sudden toothache, a broken tooth, a knocked-out tooth, or a swollen jaw, Dolphin Dental prioritises same-day emergency appointments so you are not left in pain and uncertain about what to do. The goal in any emergency is to address your immediate discomfort first, assess what has happened, and then put a plan in place.\par
\pard\sa200 Pain and dental trauma are stressful enough on their own \emdash  worrying about whether you will be seen should not be part of it. Having a dental practice you can call with confidence makes a real difference in those moments. Dr. Sezer and the team are experienced in handling urgent situations calmly, and knowing you have somewhere to go can change how you experience the whole episode.\par
\pard\sa100 \par
\pard\sb200\sa100\b\fs26 When Should You Consider It?\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Severe or sudden toothache:} Intense pain that comes on quickly or does not respond to over-the-counter relief needs to be assessed promptly.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b A knocked-out or dislodged tooth:} Time is critical \emdash  a knocked-out tooth has the best chance of being saved if you get to a dentist within an hour.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b A broken, cracked, or chipped tooth causing pain or sharp edges:} Depending on the severity, this can compromise the tooth structurally and needs same-day attention.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Swelling in the jaw, gum, or face:} Swelling can indicate an abscess \emdash  a dental infection that can spread and should not be left untreated.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b A lost filling or crown:} While not always painful, an exposed tooth is vulnerable to damage and sensitivity and should be treated quickly.\par
\pard\sa100 \par
\pard\sb200\sa100\b\fs26 What to Expect\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 1.\tab {\b Same-day triage and assessment.} Call the clinic and describe what is happening \emdash  the team will fit you in the same day and prepare for what you are coming in with.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 2.\tab {\b Immediate pain management.} Addressing your discomfort is the first priority, whether that means medication, treatment, or both.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 3.\tab {\b Clear next steps.} Once the emergency is managed, Dr. Sezer will walk you through what happened and what the follow-up plan looks like \emdash  no guesswork.\par
\page
\pard\sb480\sa120\b\fs36 Cosmetic Dentistry\b0\fs22\par
\pard\sa160 \par
\pard\sa200 Cosmetic dentistry covers any treatment that is primarily aimed at improving how your teeth look \emdash  the shape, colour, proportion, and overall harmony of your smile. It is not one single procedure but a whole category that includes veneers, bonding, whitening, gum contouring, and smile design. Dr. Sezer brings over 30 years of experience in aesthetic dentistry, which means the focus is always on results that look natural, balanced, and genuinely you.\par
\pard\sa200 Improving your smile is not vanity \emdash  for many people it has a real impact on confidence and how they present themselves in the world. The best cosmetic dentistry does not make you look like someone else. It takes what you already have and refines it. Whether you want one small thing fixed or a complete smile transformation, the process always starts with a conversation about what you want and what is actually achievable.\par
\pard\sa100 \par
\pard\sb200\sa100\b\fs26 When Should You Consider It?\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b You avoid smiling in photos:} This is one of the most common things patients say, and it is entirely fixable in most cases.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Something about your smile has always bothered you:} Even a single chip or one discoloured tooth can dominate your perception of your own appearance \emdash  small fixes make a big difference.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b You are preparing for a major life event:} Weddings, promotions, or simply a new chapter often prompt people to finally address something they have been putting off.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Your teeth have changed with age:} Teeth naturally wear, shift, and yellow over time \emdash  cosmetic dentistry reverses those effects.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b You want everything assessed together:} A cosmetic consultation looks at your whole smile as a unit, not tooth by tooth, which often reveals simpler, more efficient solutions.\par
\pard\sa100 \par
\pard\sb200\sa100\b\fs26 What to Expect\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 1.\tab {\b Smile consultation.} Dr. Sezer listens carefully to what you like, what you do not, and what you are hoping for \emdash  then gives you an honest, experienced perspective on the options.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 2.\tab {\b Treatment planning.} A personalised plan is put together that may combine multiple treatments, sequenced in the right order for the best result.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 3.\tab {\b Treatment and review.} Work proceeds at a pace that suits you, with a final review to confirm the result meets your expectations before the case is closed.\par
\page
\pard\sb480\sa120\b\fs36 TMJ Treatment\b0\fs22\par
\pard\sa160 \par
\pard\sa200 The temporomandibular joint (TMJ) is the hinge that connects your jaw to your skull, and when it is not working properly, the effects can ripple outward \emdash  jaw pain, headaches, clicking or locking, neck and shoulder tension, and difficulty opening your mouth fully. TMJ disorders have multiple potential causes including bite imbalance, teeth grinding, stress, and joint wear. Treatment focuses on identifying the root cause and reducing the strain on the joint.\par
\pard\sa200 TMJ issues are often underdiagnosed because the symptoms do not always point obviously to the jaw. Recurring headaches or persistent neck tension are sometimes traced back to a bite problem that nobody thought to look for. Getting a proper assessment from a dentist with experience in this area can be the thing that finally connects the dots. Treatment is usually conservative \emdash  most patients improve significantly without surgery.\par
\pard\sa100 \par
\pard\sb200\sa100\b\fs26 When Should You Consider It?\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Jaw pain or soreness, especially in the morning:} Morning pain often indicates clenching or grinding during sleep, which puts significant strain on the joint.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Clicking, popping, or grating sounds when you open or close your mouth:} These sounds suggest the joint disc is not moving as it should and warrant assessment.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Headaches that seem to concentrate around the temples:} Tension in the jaw muscles frequently radiates into headaches \emdash  this is more common than most people realise.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Difficulty opening your mouth fully or jaw locking:} Restricted range of motion is a sign that the joint or surrounding muscles are under significant strain.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Neck and shoulder tightness that does not resolve with stretching:} Jaw tension and body tension are closely connected \emdash  addressing one often helps the other.\par
\pard\sa100 \par
\pard\sb200\sa100\b\fs26 What to Expect\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 1.\tab {\b Assessment and bite analysis.} Dr. Sezer evaluates the joint, your bite, and your symptoms to understand the likely cause and the severity of the issue.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 2.\tab {\b Custom treatment plan.} Depending on findings, treatment may include a night guard, bite adjustment, physiotherapy referral, or a combination of approaches.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 3.\tab {\b Monitoring and follow-up.} TMJ treatment is typically a process \emdash  progress is tracked and the approach is adjusted as your symptoms improve.\par
\page
\pard\sb480\sa120\b\fs36 Night Guards\b0\fs22\par
\pard\sa160 \par
\pard\sa200 A night guard is a custom-fitted oral appliance that sits between your upper and lower teeth while you sleep. It cushions the impact of grinding (bruxism) or clenching, protecting your tooth enamel, reducing strain on the jaw joint, and absorbing forces that would otherwise be transmitted directly to your teeth and surrounding bone. Unlike over-the-counter guards, a custom night guard is made from a precise impression of your teeth and fits comfortably enough that most people forget they are wearing it.\par
\pard\sa200 Many people grind their teeth without realising it \emdash  they only find out when a dentist spots unusual wear, or when a partner mentions the sound at night. Left unaddressed, bruxism can cause significant damage: enamel erosion, cracked teeth, jaw pain, and worsening TMJ symptoms. A night guard will not stop you from grinding, but it prevents the damage that grinding causes \emdash  and for many people, it makes a noticeable difference to how they feel in the morning.\par
\pard\sa100 \par
\pard\sb200\sa100\b\fs26 When Should You Consider It?\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b You wake up with jaw soreness or facial tension:} This is one of the most reliable signs of nighttime grinding or clenching.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Your dentist has noticed unusual tooth wear:} Flattened or thinning enamel is a clear indicator that protective treatment is overdue.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b You have had a cracked or chipped tooth without an obvious cause:} Grinding is a common culprit and often the first time patients put two and two together.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b You are experiencing TMJ symptoms:} A night guard is frequently the first line of treatment for TMJ-related jaw pain and clicking.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b High stress levels:} Stress and grinding are closely linked \emdash  a guard protects you during periods when you are more likely to clench.\par
\pard\sa100 \par
\pard\sb200\sa100\b\fs26 What to Expect\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 1.\tab {\b Impressions and fitting.} Moulds of your teeth are taken and sent to a dental lab, where your guard is custom-fabricated to your exact bite.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 2.\tab {\b Delivery and adjustment.} The guard is fitted and checked for comfort and bite balance \emdash  minor adjustments ensure it sits perfectly.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 3.\tab {\b Ongoing care guidance.} You will be shown how to clean and store your guard, and Dr. Sezer will check it at regular appointments to make sure it is still doing its job.\par
\page
\pard\sb480\sa120\b\fs36 Pediatric Dentistry\b0\fs22\par
\pard\sa160 \par
\pard\sa200 Children's dental care at Dolphin Dental is built around one goal: making sure your child associates the dentist with something calm and positive. The team takes time with young patients, explains everything in age-appropriate language, and never rushes. Early visits focus on gentle examination, preventive care, and helping children feel genuinely comfortable in the chair \emdash  because how they feel about the dentist as a child shapes how they think about their oral health for the rest of their lives.\par
\pard\sa200 Starting dental visits early matters. The Canadian Dental Association recommends a child's first visit within six months of their first tooth coming in, or by their first birthday. Beyond cavity prevention, early visits allow the dentist to monitor how the teeth and jaw are developing, identify any early concerns, and coach parents on diet and home care habits. It is far easier to prevent a problem than to fix one \emdash  and the habits formed in childhood tend to stick.\par
\pard\sa100 \par
\pard\sb200\sa100\b\fs26 When Should You Consider It?\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Your child's first tooth has appeared:} This is the signal to book a first visit \emdash  it is never too early to start on the right foot.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Your child has not seen a dentist yet and is school-age:} It is not too late \emdash  a gentle, unhurried first visit can undo any anxiety and establish a positive routine.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b You have noticed a cavity or visible discolouration on a baby tooth:} Baby teeth matter and cavities in them can affect the development of adult teeth beneath.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b Your child grinds their teeth or breathes through their mouth at night:} These are worth discussing with the dentist as they can affect jaw and tooth development.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa80 \bullet\tab {\b You want to establish a relationship before anything is ever wrong:} Familiarity with the dentist makes every future visit easier \emdash  for your child and for you.\par
\pard\sa100 \par
\pard\sb200\sa100\b\fs26 What to Expect\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 1.\tab {\b A warm, unhurried welcome.} The first visit is about comfort \emdash  the team introduces your child to the environment, the tools, and the faces before any examination begins.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 2.\tab {\b Gentle examination and cleaning.} Depending on your child's age and comfort, a simple examination and light cleaning are performed, with findings explained to you in plain language.\par
\pard\fi-360\li360\sa100 3.\tab {\b Guidance for home care and next steps.} You will leave with practical advice on brushing, diet, and when to come back \emdash  everything you need to keep your child's smile on track.\par
}